########################################
聲名更加狼藉的Hans Reiser同學
########################################
:category: Computer
:tags: Linux
:date: 2006-10-13 10:51



從 /. 上看到Reiserfs項目的創建者，同時也是最主要的開發者Hans Reiser因爲殺妻嫌疑而被捕（"詳細報道":http://sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2006/10/10/BAGERLM3RR15.DTL，以及關於警方掌握的對Hans很不利的證據的"報道":http://www.mercurynews.com/mld/mercurynews/news/15735159.htm）的消息時是還是很感到震撼的。雖然Reiser名聲不佳（尤其是前一陣爲了他的Reiser4進不了Linux Kernel而打的口水仗），他的Reiserfs 3.6被用於我所有機器的Linux的ROOT分區已經有三年了，從沒有出過差錯。 

/. 在"討論":http://slashdot.org/ Reiserfs的前途，有潔癖者似乎已經不能忍受用一個謀殺嫌疑犯寫的文件系統嚷嚷著要換了，也有滿不在乎者趁機調侃說這下我們有了個真正的**Killer FileSystem**了^_^  還有人說*Rumor has it that OJ Simpson has volunteered to help Hans in his search for the real killers* ^_^ ^_^ 

Reiser運營一家叫Namesys的公司，從一些Linux大厰接受捐助開發Reiserfs。Reiser似乎和俄國頗有淵源：他的公司的主要程序員都居住在俄國和烏克蘭；他失蹤的妻子Nina也是俄國人（還是個醫學博士呢）。出事后他的老爸出來說Namesys一直有兩個重點：*pushing the envelope to bring the filesystem up to the 21st Century from the 1970s* 和 *the well being of the* **Russian and Ukrainian programmers** *who have put so much of their lives into giving life to the modern filesystems that Hans envisioned as a young Berkeley University student back in 1983* 。

以前上Namesys網站時就對上面的技術文檔裏動不動就來幅"彌漫死亡氣息的人形圖案":http://www.namesys.com/r4pics/r4signJ.jpg感到不解，看來Reiser同學還真的好這口(!)o_o


警方現在掌握的證據：

1. 在Hans的車裏和房子裏找到了Nina的血跡。

1. Hans曾試圖藏匿後來被警方找到有Nina的血跡的1988年本田車。並且后座已經（被Hans）拆掉，不知所蹤，警方還在尋找。

1. 警方還發現Hans在Nina失蹤后買了一些關於警察如何調查罪案的書閲讀。（不過Hans怎麽也算是個智商不低的人，怎麽會這麽給警察送把柄？不解）

看了六季CSI，這下有個活樣本觀摩了。/. 的留言裏有位顯然也看了不少CSI的仁兄質疑說有血在他車裏就能起訴嗎，結果被人教育道：*You've been watching way too much CSI if you think this evidence isn't enough to take a case to trial. Not every murder case ends with the forensic investigators finding a tiny shard of a unique knife mande only once in history by the accused's next door neighbor which is metallically linked to the handle of a knife found in a dumpster with the accused fingerprints on it nearby some ashes that have remnants of the victims DNS embedded in the one tooth that survived the burning process etc. In many situations, the blood in his car by itself would be enough for a DA to decide to try the case. People often place way too much import on the idea of "circumstantial evidence"... it's still evidence. Given enough of it, a good prosecutor can employ a strategy of diminishing probabilities: one single piece of evidence may only narrow down the potential suspect list to a few thousand... but each additional piece of evidence narrows the field further and further until the number of people which fit all of the evidence is increasingly small, and the likelihood that someone other than the accused is guilty becomes very small.*

看來果然不能盡信書啊。

最後信馬由繮下：Reiser的名字Hans是個標準的德國人的名字，不知道他是不是德裔；而被警方懷疑被他殺掉的妻子呢，則是個猶太人 o_o o_o o_o 